README.md, before:

# Derek Powell
Data Science Project Portfolio

# [Project 1 - Abusive Language Detection](https://github.com/dpowell022/Capstone_2)
### Improve user engagement on your social platform by detecting abusive language in text!
Used TF-IDF vectorization and a 135,000-row labeled Twitter dataset to train a random forest model to perform supervised classification of whether a tweet is ‘abusive’ or not with a 92% Recall score. 
 - Python tools:  NLP, Random Forest, TF-IDF vectorization, Seaborn, Sci-kit Learn, Supervised Classification
![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/abusive_language.jpg)

# [Project 2 - Helpdesk Ticket Auto-Categorization](https://github.com/dpowell022/Capstone_3)
### Reduce human error and improve data accuracy by letting machine learning categorize your helpdesk ticket for you!
Used SVM and multi-class classification to take inputs sourced from helpdesk ticket data and automatically categorize the nature of the issue from a list of over 50 categories, automating an otherwise manual (and often inaccurate) task.
 - Python tools: Support Vector Machines, NLP, n-gram work vectorization, Pandas, k-NN, Multi-class Classification.
![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/helpdesk.JPG)

# [Tableau Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/derek.powell/viz/ChemicorpDashboard_16581921872730/Dashboard1?publish=yes)
### Explored a practice data set to answer questions about segmentations and revenue opportunity
![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/tableau-dashboard.JPG)

Commit message:

Reformatted project flow and added project 3

README.md, after:

# Derek Powell
Data Science Project Portfolio

![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/abusive_language.jpg)
# [Project 1 - Abusive Language Detection](https://github.com/dpowell022/Capstone_2)
### Improve user engagement on your social platform by detecting abusive language in text!
Used TF-IDF vectorization and a 135,000-row labeled Twitter dataset to train a random forest model to perform supervised classification of whether a tweet is ‘abusive’ or not with a 92% Recall score. 
 - Python tools:  NLP, Random Forest, TF-IDF vectorization, Seaborn, Sci-kit Learn, Supervised Classification


![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/helpdesk.JPG)
# [Project 2 - Helpdesk Ticket Auto-Categorization](https://github.com/dpowell022/Capstone_3)
### Reduce human error and improve data accuracy by letting machine learning categorize your helpdesk ticket for you!
Used SVM and multi-class classification to take inputs sourced from helpdesk ticket data and automatically categorize the nature of the issue from a list of over 50 categories, automating an otherwise manual (and often inaccurate) task.
 - Python tools: Support Vector Machines, NLP, n-gram work vectorization, Pandas, k-NN, Multi-class Classification.


![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/tableau-dashboard.JPG)
# [Tableau Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/derek.powell/viz/ChemicorpDashboard_16581921872730/Dashboard1?publish=yes)
Explored a practice data set to answer questions about segmentations and revenue opportunity, such as 
 - "Which of our customers spends the most, and on what products?" and 
 - "From which customer segment / product would we get the most value from further investment?"

![](https://github.com/dpowell022/dpowell-ds-portfolio/blob/main/images/relax_inc_resize.JPG)
# [Project 3 - Predicting User Adoption](https://github.com/dpowell022/26.2.3-Relax-Inc-Take-Home-Challenge/blob/main/relax%20inc%20takehome%20challenge.ipynb)
### Identifying the factors that influence user adoption is pivotal towards growing your business!
This project sought to define and isolate 'adopted users' from a dataset of users subscribing to a product and then determine which variables seemd to most correlate most positively with the user adoption rate. 
 - Python tools: Time series analysis, Heatmap correlation, Seaborn
